The solution to this problem is based on these essential pieces of information:

1. Everyone know there is at least one person with blue eyes
2. If there are B individuals with blue eyes then each individual, blue or brown-eyed (remember they don't know), knows there are B or B+1 individuals with blue eyes.
3. These folks are inteligent enough to deduce what this means, and that their choice is based on how they and their fellow islanders react to the information they have.

Note: Even though it's not as important, it helps to assume that everyone can examine everyone else's eyes before 8:00pm and make a choice to leave or not. Imagine each individual has an iPad of everyone's records except themselves.

Lets explore some cases, for the number of days D:
Case B = 1
Every brown-eyed looks around and sees there is one blue-eyed person. That one blue-eyed person looks around and sees there is no blue-eyed person. Blue eyed person immediately knows that they are the blue-eyed person and they take the 8:00pm flight. Hence D = 1.

Case B = 2
Every brown-eyed person looks around and sees 2 blue-eyed people. Those 2 blue-eyed people look around and see only 1 blue-eyed person. They both stay along with the brown-eyed people, and those 2 realize the next day that the other is still there. At this point, they each know there is at least 1 blue-eyed person but they would have left knowing there is 1 blue-eyed person, so that invididual realizes he/she must have blue eyes. Hence both take the 8:00pm flight, and D = 2. What if we consider a brown-eyed person: that individual sees 2 blue-eyed people and by day 2 both are gone, so that individual knows he/she has brown eyes.

We can then apply the same rule for ant B greater than or equal to 1. That is for B individuals with blue eyes, the blue-eyed people will leave in B days. Lets say each individual sees N blue-eyed people, then they all must follow the rule that in N+1 days they must leave assuming that no one leaves on day N. For the blue-eyed people they will see N = B - 1 blue-eyed people so they will leave on day B, and for brown-eyed people they will leave on day B+1 because they see N = B people. But since, all the blue-eyed people leave on day B, then all the brown-eyed people see this and stay.



